Grd 66432 (#239)
IBM/universal-connectors: README.md

## Overview

The Guardium universal connector enables Guardium Data Protection and Guardium Insights to get data from potentially any data source's native activity logs without using S-TAPs. It includes support for various plug-in packages, requiring minimal configuration. You can easily develop plug-ins for other data sources and install them in Guardium.

> The captured events embed messages of any type that is supported by the configured data source. That includes: information and administrative system logs (e.g.: login logs, various data lake platform native plug-in related data), DDLs and DMLs, errors of varying sub-types, etc. The incoming events received by the universal connector can be configured to arrive either encrypted or as plaintext.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The captured events embed messages of any type that is supported by the configured data source. That includes: information and administrative system logs (e.g.: login logs, various data lake platform native plug-in related data), DDLs and DMLs, errors of varying sub-types, etc. The incoming events received by the universal connector can be configured to arrive either encrypted or as plain text.
```

Author: It's one word @AlexaNahum

The Guardium universal connector identifies and parses the received events, and converts them to a standard Guardium format. The output of the Guardium universal connector is forwarded to the Guardium sniffer on the collector, for policy and auditing enforcements. The Guardium policy, as usual, determines whether the activities are legitimate or not, when to alert, and the auditing level per activity.

> The Guardium universal connector scales by adding Guardium collectors. It provides a load-balancing and fail-over mechanisms among a set of Guardium collectors. In it of itself, it might implicate distribution of the whole set of events to each of the Guardium collectors in the set, causing duplications and redundant event processing. To bypass this fallback default behavior, these mechanisms are to be configured as part of the input scope of the installed connector's configuration file.

Reviewer 2: Not sure how exactly we should mention it, but loadbalance, failover are only partially supported (depends on the input plugin)

Author: Well, this says exactly that.  See "fallback default behavior"

For data sources that do not have pre-defined plug-ins, you can customize the filtering and parsing components of audit trails and log formats. The open architecture enables reuse of prebuilt filters and parsers, and creation of shared library for the Guardium community.

> The Guardium Universal Connector identifies and parses the received events, and converts them to a standard Guardium format. The output of the Guardium universal connector is forwarded to the Guardium sniffer on the collector, for policy and auditing enforcements. The Guardium policy, as usual, determines whether the activities are legitimate or not, when to alert, and the auditing level per activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Guardium universal connector identifies and parses the received events, and converts them to a standard Guardium format. The output of the Guardium universal connector is forwarded to the Guardium sniffer on the collector, for policy and auditing enforcements. The Guardium policy, as usual, determines whether the activities are legitimate or not, when to alert, and the auditing level per activity.
```

Author: Prefer upper case @AlexaNahum

> The Guardium Universal Connector is scalable. It provides load-balancing and fail-over mechanisms among a deployment of Universal Connector instances, that either conform to Guardium Data Protection as a set of Guardium Collectors, or to Guardium Insights as a set of universal connector pods. The load-balancing mechanism distributes the events sent from the data source among a collection of Universal Connector instances installed on the Guardium endpoints (i.e., Guardium Data Protection collectors or Guardium Insights pods). For more information, see [Enabling Load-Balancing and Fail-Over](#enabling-load-balancing-and-fail-over).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Guardium universal connector is scalable. It provides load-balancing and fail-over mechanisms among a deployment of universal connector instances, that either conform to Guardium Data Protection as a set of Guardium Collectors, or to Guardium Insights as a set of universal connector pods. The load-balancing mechanism distributes the events sent from the data source among a collection of universal connector instances installed on the Guardium endpoints (i.e., Guardium Data Protection collectors or Guardium Insights pods). For more information, see [Enabling Load-Balancing and Fail-Over](#enabling-load-balancing-and-fail-over).
```

Author: same

Connections to databases that are configured with the Guardium universal connector are handled the same as all other datasources in Guardium. You can apply policies, view reports, monitor connections, for example.

## How it works

Under the hood, the universal connector is a Logstash pipeline comprised of a series of three plug-ins:

1. Input plug-in. This plug-in ingests events. Depending on the type of plug-in, there are settings to either pull events from APIs or receive a push of events.

2. Filter plug-in. This plug-in filters the events captured by the input plug-in. The filter plug-in parses, filters, and modifies event logs into a Guardium-digestible format.

3. Output plug-in. This plug-in receives the formatted event logs from the filter plug-in and transmits them to IBM Guardium (either Guardium Data Protection or Guardium Insights).

> ***Note: the Output plug-in is presented here as an internal component of the universal connector pipeline and is not to be accessed or modified by the user.***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***Note: the output plug-in is presented here as an internal component of the universal connector pipeline and is not to be accessed or modified by the user.***
```

Author: upper case to emphasize we're referring to The Output plug-in, and not just any output plug-in @AlexaNahum

Reviewer: oh, I didn't realize it was an official plug-in name. Sorry about that. Yes, we should leave that capitalized then.

![Universal Connector - Logstash pipeline](/docs/images/uc_overview.png)

Universal Connector plug-ins are packaged and deployed in a Docker container environment.

### The Workflows
There are a couple of flavors aimed at enabling audit log forwarding into Guardium for various data sources, comprised of either a cloud or on-premise data lake platform, of a database type that is supported by the Guardium sniffer[^1]:

  1. Utilize the out-of-the-box, pre-installed plug-in packages[^2] that require minimal configuration on the client's end by either plugging suited values into their respective template configuration files in the input and filter sections, or by adding a Ruby code sub-section to the said filter section in case a more complex parsing method is necessary as a pre-processing stage to be executed prior to the execution of the respective filter plug-in. See each plug-in's user manual via [Available Plug-ins](/docs/available_plugins.md).

>   2. For data sources that are not yet supported, you can either upload an IBM-approved filter plug-in or [develop your own](#developing-plug-ins) and add it to our plug-in repository. You can also clone and modify the existing plug-ins as a template for your convenience (either in Ruby or Java)[^3]. You can optionally either let the parsing operations be executed by your filter plug-in, or assign this task to the Guardium Sniffer by transferring the event to the Output plug-in in a designated structure as part of the filter plug-in development, as instructed in the links in the [Developers Guide](#developing-plug-ins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. For data sources that are not yet supported, you can either upload an IBM-approved filter plug-in or [develop your own](#developing-plug-ins) and add it to our plug-in repository. You can also clone and modify the existing plug-ins as a template for your convenience (either in Ruby or Java)[^3]. You can optionally either let the parsing operations be executed by your filter plug-in, or assign this task to the Guardium Sniffer by transferring the event to the output plug-in in a designated structure as part of the filter plug-in development, as instructed in the links in the [Developers Guide](#developing-plug-ins).
```

Author: same

### Keep In Mind:

>   1. The pre-defined and pre-installed plug-ins do not require any manual uploads or other such pre-requisites on the user's end, as opposed to user-made plug-ins or other available Logstash plug-ins. You can simply use a ready-made template for plugging in values to the input and filter sections of their respective configuration files, expand these sections by using online pre-installed Logstash plug-ins, or write your own Ruby code parser using the [Ruby filter plug-in](#-use-logstashs-ruby-filter-plug-in) as a pre-processing stage prior to executing the filter plug-ins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. The pre-defined and pre-installed plug-ins do not require any manual uploads or other such prerequisites on the user's end, as opposed to user-made plug-ins or other available Logstash plug-ins. You can simply use a ready-made template for plugging in values to the input and filter sections of their respective configuration files, expand these sections by using online pre-installed Logstash plug-ins, or write your own Ruby code parser using the [Ruby filter plug-in](#-use-logstashs-ruby-filter-plug-in) as a pre-processing stage prior to executing the filter plug-ins.
```

  2.  It is recommended to use one of the input plug-ins already in the repository and modify its config file input section [^4]. But if the input plug-ins already in the repository are insufficient for your needs, you can add a new one.

>   3. The user can choose to configure either pull or push methods via the massaging middleware service installed on the data lake platform that is used by the input plug-in. Messages can be received with pull or push delivery. In pull mode, the Universal Connector instance initiates requests to the remote service to retrieve messages. In push mode, the remote service initiates requests to the Universal Connector instance to deliver messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. The user can choose to configure either pull or push methods via the messaging middleware service installed on the data lake platform that is used by the input plug-in. Messages can be received with pull or push delivery. In pull mode, the universal connector instance initiates requests to the remote service to retrieve messages. In push mode, the remote service initiates requests to the universal connector instance to deliver messages.
```

The Guardium universal connector identifies and parses the received events, and converts them to a standard Guardium format. The output of the Guardium universal connector is forwarded to the Guardium sniffer on the collector, for policy and auditing enforcements. The Guardium policy, as usual, determines whether the activities are legitimate or not, when to alert, and the auditing level per activity.

The Guardium universal connector is scalable. It provides load-balancing and fail-over mechanisms among a deployment of Universal Connector instances, that either conform to GDP as a set of Guardium Collectors, or to GI as a set of Universal Connector Pods. For more information, see [Enabling Load-Balancing and Fail-Over](#enabling-load-balancing-and-fail-over).

Connections to databases that are configured with the Guardium universal connector are handled the same as all other datasources in Guardium. You can apply policies, view reports, monitor connections, for example.

## How it works

> The Universal Connector under-the-hood is a Logstash pipeline comprising of a series of three plug-ins:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the hood, the universal connector is a Logstash pipeline comprised of a series of three plug-ins:
```

1. Input plug-in. This plug-in ingests events. Depending on the type of plug-in, there are settings to either pull events from APIs or receive a push of events.

2. Filter plug-in. This plug-in filters the events captured by the input plug-in. The filter plug-in parses, filters, and modifies event logs into a Guardium digestible format.

3. Output plug-in. This plug-in receives the formatted event logs from the filter plug-in and transmits them to IBM Guardium (either Guardium Data Protection or Guardium Insights).

***Note: the Output plug-in is presented here as an internal component of the UC pipeline and is not to be accessed or modified by the user.***

![Universal Connector - Logstash pipeline](/docs/images/uc_overview.png)

Universal Connector plug-ins are packaged and deployed in a Docker container environment.

### The Workflows

> There are a couple of flavors aimed at enabling audit log forwarding into Guardium for various Data Sources, comprised of either a cloud or on-premise data lake platform, of a Data Base type that is supported by the Guardium sniffer[^1]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a couple of flavors aimed at enabling audit log forwarding into Guardium for various data sources, comprised of either a cloud or on-premise data lake platform, of a database type that is supported by the Guardium sniffer[^1]:
```

>   1. Utilize the out-of-the-box pre-installed plug-in packages[^2] that require minimal configurations on the client's end by either plugging in suited values in their respective template configuration files in the input and filter sections, or adding a Ruby code sub-section to the said filter section in case a more complex parsing method is necessary as a pre-processing stage to be executed prior to the execution of the respective filter plug-in. See each plug-in's user manual via [Available Plug-ins](/docs/available_plugins.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Utilize the out-of-the-box, pre-installed plug-in packages[^2] that require minimal configuration on the client's end by either plugging suited values into their respective template configuration files in the input and filter sections, or by adding a Ruby code sub-section to the said filter section in case a more complex parsing method is necessary as a pre-processing stage to be executed prior to the execution of the respective filter plug-in. See each plug-in's user manual via [Available Plug-ins](/docs/available_plugins.md).
```

>   2. For not yet supported Data Sources, you can either upload an IBM approved filter plug-in or [develop your own](#developing-plug-ins) and add it to our plug-ins repository, with the option to clone and modify the existing plug-ins as a template for your convenience (either in Ruby or Java)[^3]. You can optionally either let the parsing operations be executed by your filter plug-in, or assign this task to the Guardium Sniffer by transferring the event to the Output plug-in in a designated structure as part of the filter plug-in development, as instructed in the links in the [Developers Guide](#developing-plug-ins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. For data sources that are not yet supported, you can either upload an IBM-approved filter plug-in or [develop your own](#developing-plug-ins) and add it to our plug-in repository. You can also clone and modify the existing plug-ins as a template for your convenience (either in Ruby or Java)[^3]. You can optionally either let the parsing operations be executed by your filter plug-in, or assign this task to the Guardium Sniffer by transferring the event to the Output plug-in in a designated structure as part of the filter plug-in development, as instructed in the links in the [Developers Guide](#developing-plug-ins).
```

>   3. For some data lake platforms it's possible to define inclusion and exclusion filters for the events routed to Universal Connector to be ingested by the input plug-in which can result in a more efficient filtering implemented either as part of the filter scope in the connector's configuration file, or the developed filter plug-in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. For some data lake platforms, you can define inclusion and exclusion filters for the events routed to the universal connector to be ingested by the input plug-in. This can result in a more efficient filtering implemented either as part of the filter scope in the connector's configuration file, or in the developed filter plug-in.
```

### Keep In Mind:

>   1. The pre-defined and pre-installed plug-ins do not require any manual uploads or other such pre-requisites on the user's end, as opposed to user made plug-ins or other available Logstash plug-ins. The user needs to simply use a ready-made template for plugging in values to the input and filter sections of their respective configuration files, or expand these sections by using online pre-installed Logstash plug-ins, or write their own Ruby code parser using the [Ruby filter plug-in](#-use-logstashs-ruby-filter-plug-in) as a pre-processing stage prior to executing the filter plug-ins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. The pre-defined and pre-installed plug-ins do not require any manual uploads or other such pre-requisites on the user's end, as opposed to user-made plug-ins or other available Logstash plug-ins. You can simply use a ready-made template for plugging in values to the input and filter sections of their respective configuration files, expand these sections by using online pre-installed Logstash plug-ins, or write your own Ruby code parser using the [Ruby filter plug-in](#-use-logstashs-ruby-filter-plug-in) as a pre-processing stage prior to executing the filter plug-ins.
```

>   2. It's optional to add an input plug-in to the repository in case the existing ones are insufficient for your needs, although it's recommended to use one of the existing pre-installed input plug-ins and modify their respective config files' input section according to their documentation[^4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2.  It is recommended to use one of the input plug-ins already in the repository and modify its config file input section [^4]. But if the input plug-ins already in the repository are insufficient for your needs, you can add a new one. 
```

>   3. The user can choose to configure either pull or push methods via the massaging middleware service installed on the Data Lake Platform that is used by the input plug-in. Messages can be received with pull or push delivery. In pull mode, the Universal Connector instance initiates requests to the remote service to retrieve messages. In push mode, the remote service initiates requests to the Universal Connector instance to deliver messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. The user can choose to configure either pull or push methods via the massaging middleware service installed on the data lake platform that is used by the input plug-in. Messages can be received with pull or push delivery. In pull mode, the Universal Connector instance initiates requests to the remote service to retrieve messages. In push mode, the remote service initiates requests to the Universal Connector instance to deliver messages.
```

>   4. The specific audit log types transmitted into Universal Connector from the Data Source are configurable via the SQL Instance settings installed on the Data Lake Platform. This can vary depending on the installed Data Lake Platform native plug-ins and the utilized messaging middleware service[^5].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. The specific audit log types transmitted into the universal connector from the data source are configurable via the SQL instance settings installed on the data lake platform. This can vary depending on the installed data lake platform native plug-ins and the utilized messaging middleware service[^5].
```

### Enabling Load Balancing and Fail-over

> Using the given out-of-the-box mechanisms in both GDP and GI might implicate distribution of the whole set of ingested events to each of the Guardium instances (i.e., Guardium Collectors and Universal Connector Pods respectively) in the set, causing duplications and redundant event processing. To properly avoid this fallback default behavior, these mechanisms are to be configured as part of the input scope of the installed Connector's configuration file[^6]. This is configurable via both pull and push methods. Note that the push method on GDP requires configuring the full set of Collectors as part of the said input scope. For detailed information regarding each plug-in, check the [Available Plug-ins](/docs/available_plugins.md) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the given out-of-the-box mechanisms in both Guardium Data Protection and Guardium Insights might implicate distribution of the whole set of ingested events to each of the Guardium instances (i.e., Guardium collectors and universal connector pods respectively) in the set. This could cause duplications and redundant event processing. To properly avoid this fallback default behavior, configure these mechanisms as part of the input scope of the installed connector's configuration file[^6]. This is configurable via both pull and push methods. Note that the push method on Guardium Data Protection requires configuring the full set of collectors as part of the said input scope. For detailed information regarding each plug-in, check the [Available Plug-ins](/docs/available_plugins.md) page.
```

## Deploying Universal Connector

In Guardium Data Protection, the overall workflow for deploying the universal connector is as follows:

> 1. Install desired policies as instructed in [Policies](#policies)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Installing desired policies as instructed in [Policies](#policies)
```

2. Uploading and installing a plugin

3. Configuring native auditing[^7] on the data source

4. Sending native audit logs to the universal connector, using either a push or pull workflow.

> 5. Configuring the universal connector to read the native audit logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Configuring the universal connector to read the native audit logs.
```

Universal Connector plug-ins are packaged and deployed in a Docker container environment.

### In-depth how-tos
There are a couple of flavors aimed at enabling audit log forwarding into Guardium for various Data Sources, comprised of either a cloud or on-premise data lake platform, of a Data Base type that is supported by the Guardium sniffer (should attach here a link to the supported dbs):

>   1. The three pre-installed plug-in packages (MongoDB, MySQL, and Amazon S3) that require minimal configurations on the client's end: either plugging in suited values in their respective template configuration files in the input and filter sections, or adding a ruby code sub-section to the filter sections in case a more complex parsing method is necessary as a pre-processing stage to be executed prior to the respective filter plug-in is sufficient.

Reviewer 2: I think we should differentiate between versions.
11.3,11.4,11.5,GI3.1,GI3.2- as written here
GI3.3,SaaS,GDP12.0- all plugins from github are installed during the image build, so they are all technically pre-installed

  2. For not yet supported Data Sources, you can either upload an external filter plug-in or develop your own and add it to our plug-ins repository, with the option to clone and modify the existing plug-ins as a template for your convenience (either in Ruby or Java)

  **Note:**
  MongoDB, MySQL, and Amazon S3 are presented here as an example of the three pre-defined and pre-installed plug-ins that are built-in in Universal Connector. These packages do not require any manual uploads or other such pre-requisites on the user's end, as opposed to user made plug-ins or other available Logstash plug-ins. The user needs to simply use a ready-made template for plugging in values to the input and filter sections of their respective configuration files, or expand these sections by using online pre-installed Logstash plug-ins, or write their own Ruby code parser using the [Ruby filter plug-in](#-use-logstashs-ruby-filter-plug-in) as a pre-processing stage prior to executing the filter/input plug-ins.

**Note:**

> It's optional to add an input plug-in to the repository in case the existing ones are insufficient for your needs, although it's recommended to use one of the existing or preinstalled input plug-ins and modify their config files' input section accordingly

Reviewer 2: In SaaS 1.0 customers cannot upload anything on their own. Maybe we can discuss how we want to present it in the documentation after @hadarkorny's demo

**Note:**

> The Output plug-in is presented here as an under-the-hood internal component of the UC pipeline and is not to be accessed or modified by the user.

Reviewer 2: 👍 an important note

  1. The pre-defined and pre-installed plug-ins do not require any manual uploads or other such prerequisites on the user's end, as opposed to user-made plug-ins or other available Logstash plug-ins. You can simply use a ready-made template for plugging in values to the input and filter sections of their respective configuration files, expand these sections by using online pre-installed Logstash plug-ins, or write your own Ruby code parser using the [Ruby filter plug-in](#-use-logstashs-ruby-filter-plug-in) as a pre-processing stage prior to executing the filter plug-ins.
  2.  It is recommended to use one of the input plug-ins already in the repository and modify its config file input section [^4]. But if the input plug-ins already in the repository are insufficient for your needs, you can add a new one.

>   3. The user can choose to configure either pull or push methods via the messaging middleware service installed on the data lake platform that is used by the input plug-in. Messages can be received with pull or push delivery. In pull mode, the universal connector instance initiates requests to the remote service to retrieve messages. In push mode, the remote service initiates requests to the universal connector instance to deliver messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. You can choose to configure either pull or push methods via the messaging middleware service installed on the data lake platform that is used by the input plug-in. Messages can be received with pull or push delivery. In pull mode, the universal connector instance initiates requests to the remote service to retrieve messages. In push mode, the remote service initiates requests to the universal connector instance to deliver messages.
```

 * When configuring universal connectors, only use port numbers higher than 5000. Use a new port for each future connection.

 * Use only the packages that are supplied by IBM. Do not use extra spaces in the title.

* IPV6 support
  - S3 SQS and S3 Cloudwatch plug-ins are not supported on IPV6 Guardium systems.
  - The DynamoDB plug-in does not support IPV6.

* MySQL plug-ins:

>   - do not send the DB name to Guardium, if the DB commands are performed by using MySQL native client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - do not send the database name to Guardium if the database commands are performed by using MySQL native client.
```

(In order to overwrite old plug-ins, you can upload a new version from the official IBM Github page. Please make sure that the new plug-in has the exact same name as the old version.)

[Here](docs/developing_plugins_gdp.md) is a guide for developing new plug-ins for Guardium Data Protection.

[Here](docs/developing_plugins_gi.md) is a guide for developing new plug-ins for Guardium Insights.

### <a name="Ruby-filter"></a> Use Logstash's Ruby filter plug-in

> For adding a parser to the filter section of the configuration file as a pre-processing stage prior to executing the filter plug-in, use [Ruby filter plugin](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/plugins-filters-ruby.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For adding a parser to the filter section of the configuration file as a pre-processing stage prior to executing the filter plug-in, use the [Ruby filter plugin](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/plugins-filters-ruby.html).
```

### <a name="filter-plug-in"></a> Develop a filter plug-in
* For developing a Ruby filter plug-in, use [How to write a Logstash filter plugin](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/filter-new-plugin.html)
* For developing a Java filter plug-in, use [How to write a Java filter plugin](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/java-filter-plugin.html)

### <a name="input-plug-in"></a> Develop an input plug-in
* For developing a Ruby input plug-in, use [How to write a Logstash input plugin](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/input-new-plugin.html)
* For developing a Java input plug-in, use [How to write a Java filter plugin](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/java-input-plugin.html)

**Note:**

> It is the developer's responsibility to maintain and update the Data Base's supported versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is the developer's responsibility to maintain and update the database's supported versions
```

WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

[^1]: See [IBM Guardium System Requirements and Supported Platforms](https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/ibm-guardium-system-requirements-and-supported-platforms)

> [^2]: In GI 3.3.0, SaaS and GDP 12.0.0 all of the plug-ins listed in [Available Plug-ins](/docs/available_plugins.md) are pre-installed upon start-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^2]: In GI 3.3.0, SaaS, and GDP 12.0.0 all of the plug-ins listed in [Available Plug-ins](/docs/available_plugins.md) are pre-installed upon startup.
```

[^3]: with the exception of GI SaaS 1.0.0 where no manual uploads by the customer are allowed.
[^4]: See [Input plugins](docs/available_plugins.md#input-plugins) for the full list and documentation.
[^5]: See GCP MySQL's [Create the SQL Instance and Configure Logging](filter-plugin/logstash-filter-pubsub-mysql-guardium#create-the-sql-instance-and-configure-logging) section as an example of configuring audit log types via the cloud SQL Instance.
[^6]: See GCP's Pub/Sub input plug-in [load-balancing configuration](input-plugin/logstash-input-google-pubsub#note-2) as an example of a pull method plug-in.

> [^7]: For some Data Sources it is possible to configure either real-time audit logging or historic one via the input plug-in's configuration file in its input scope (i.e., [JDBC Snowflake](https://github.com/infoinsights/guardium-snowflake-uc-filter#3-configure-the-input-and-filter-plugins))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^7]: For some data sources, you can configure either real-time or historic audit logging  via the input plug-in's configuration file in its input scope (e.g., [JDBC Snowflake](https://github.com/infoinsights/guardium-snowflake-uc-filter#3-configure-the-input-and-filter-plugins))
```
